I recently doubted paganism for a while, because I saw cringe in the myths, and considered the practicality of having a church everywhere. I started to like the aesthetics of Ave Maria and the idea of peace and society. I then took a walk in the woods, which changed my mind a little. I felt the naturalness of paganism. It's a cringe term but we know what it means. You don't really have intuitive practice in Christianity. Things people believe from birth aren't present in Christianity, but things that people have trouble believing, are. The European implementation of Christianity is pleasant, but I believe that it's the European part of it that makes this so.

Entering a church in Northern Europe imitates the feeling of a good piece of nature. It doesn't have the same effect though. Standing on a mountain staring down at the glory of creation is clearly superior to staring at a cross while mumbling to a Jew who's supposed to save you from the horrors of creation. 

The old Germanic (and I imagine other European) ways of life are superior to modern society. As Tacitus describes, they lived in separate houses with land around it. From his description, it must have looked very cozy. You sometimes see the evolution of those Germanic houses into the medieval times and it looks very warm. They built it near places they deemed beautiful. Compare this to the rows of crammed concrete houses in industrial wastelands or cities. This is not good. The old Germanic way is preserved in rich neighborhoods here in the Netherlands, employing similar roofs and beautiful space around the house in a forest like environment or near the coast or both. That is the ideal.

Finally, things I believed to be cool and epic as a child, like reincarnation, spirits, talking to the dead, burial mounds, epic stories, heroes, Gods and stuff are present in paganism. Every intuitive belief or feeling has a place in it, and it is completely logical. You don't need a scholastic movement to try to cope.

-Bart