In these times of crisis surrounding the coronavirus, with hospitals all
over the world overloaded, it's a good idea to remember that nature
provides us with plenty of things that can help us stay healthy. 

A great example would be evergreen tea. A single cup of pine tea contains
five times the amount of vitamin C found in an orange, and vitamin C is
known to boost the immune system (although the claim is disputed). All you
need to get a cup of evergreen tea is something to boil water in, a knife
and knowledge of local poisonous evergreen species (in Europe that will
mainly be yew, but there may be others). Just go out and find a non
poisonous tree and cut off some small branches. Boil some water, take it
off the heat and put the branches in. In case of pine and cedar it can help
to cut the needles into pieces, but for spruce and fir this gets very
tedious and I usually don't do it. Remember not to keep boiling the water
as this will destroy the vitamin C. Fir, pine, spruce and cedar all taste
different, and it's worth giving all of them a try.

Another good one is willow bark. Willow bark contains a substance similar
to the functional component of aspirin. Simply separate the inner and outer
bark, and boil the inner bark for a while. The result will be a painkilling
tea. Just don't go overboard with this one because you can overdose on it.

For a milder painkiller, pretty much any part of birch will do. Bark,
leaves and twigs can all be used to make tea.

Staying on the topic of birch, birch sap which can be tapped during spring
is loaded with nutrients and antioxidants, despite being very low in
calories.

If you get a cut and don't have anything else around, the slime found in
cattail sheathes is a natural antiseptic. You also get some edible parts
from the plants as well, and they tend to be very abundant in the Northern
hemisphere.

Finally garlic has been shown to help white blood cells fight off
pathogens. Garlic can pretty easily be grown at home. 

-Seagull