Tons of Europeans keep asking me what their best options are since it's very hard to off grid or even find rural land. My first point of advice is to keep trying. Find a lot in the countryside that nobody wants near farms an forests with nothing on it. A plot of just woods is fine. If you can't, then build a house boat (it's free if you move it every week like 10ft last I looked in the UK) or a camper or a van. Here's a list you will need to be basically self sustaining. 

>Electricity

>2-4 100 watt solar panels mounted to the roof. 
>1000 watt pure sine wave inverter. 3k would be the absolute max you could use.
>2-4 deep cycle marine batteries
>Appropriately sized charge controller. Pwm is fine. Buy cheap and get a spare. 
>Use boat wiring for best results. The battery and inverter connections will have to be very thick guage copper though. You can find it at Auto part stores but they are pricey. 
>12v and 120v a/c wiring. 

>Water

>Get a good quality 12v on demand water pump from a local marine or RV dealer. Don't get a cheap one, the switches fail often. 
>Use PEX for plumbing along with crimp rings. Ask a friend for their tool or I you're on the cheap use compression rings instead of crimped. No promises though long term. 
>Get a 40 to 60 gallon tank off of eBay. Ones for boats work well but RV polyethelene tanks are cheap. Mount them solid as a rock under a bench. 
>Get a shower kit and small RV sink. Be creative and have fun. 
>Buy a black water tank bigger than your water tank, or vent greywater under the vehicle or camper.
>Get either a portable toilet or hopefully an RV toilet. 
> Plumb it all up

>Cooking

>Get a Coleman stove or my favorite a camp chef stove/oven combo. Runs for months on a 20 gallon tank. Get a 30 gallon propane tank and be set for 6 months almost. It will heat the small space.  Install an RV vent fan though. 
>Either use ice in a really good cooler (don't cheap out) or find a propane fridge used in boats and RVs. Buy used if you can because this is the single most expensive item. If you can find consistent power a small dorm sized fridge will suffice. I use a cooler for 6 months and found if I got a really nice one it wasn't bad at all. 
>Learn to cook. And buy good quality multiuse chef quality cookware. My favorites are a 12 inch cast iron skillet, Pyrex visions borosilicate glass pots, a USA Pan stainless pan and small pot for acidic foods and all stainless steel serving supplies. Victorinox 8 inch chefs knife is best value or a mora knife. Lodge cast iron and glass covers most of your bases. 

>Cleaning

>Good synthetic clothes clean easily in a bucket and dry in an hour or two.  Merino wool is an investment and needs kookabura wash to be happy and last. Goretex and all hiking gear gets tech wash from nikwax. Nikwax waterproofing spray is amazing but do it outside and keep it off your skin.
>Either boat or vehicle needs to be kept clean and in good repair or you will stay out. Get a generic business logo if you want to make it look like a work van. Maybe use your investment to advertise surveillance services since people with money could use someone to watch their property and call the police if migrants show up at night. Think outside the box. Tell people you are an author traveling and documenting this "interesting time".
>Get a gym membership for showers and a good workout. It will save you tons of water. Most gas stations have a water valve somewhere outside and so do camp and rv sites. They charge a few dollars to dump your blackwater tank.
>Filter your drinking water always. Dupont makes. Good inline cartridge system. And on demand hot water heaters (propane) for campers are 100 bucks on Amazon.