What is Wicca?
Wicca is a form of British neopaganism invented in the 1950’s. It has no correlation with actual British paganism nor any type of paganism from anywhere. Wicca has different varieties. Started with Gardnerian, branched off into Alexandrian, Dianic, etc., but nowadays, most Wiccans are eclectic Wiccans, meaning they follow the basics of the first varieties of Wicca, but also incorporate other things from outside of that into their personal practice.

So, let’s start with the basics. The word Wicca in itself makes no sense at all when used in this way. The word wicca in Old English means ‘male witch,’ and wicce is the female equivalent. These both derive from Proto-Germanic *wikkjaz, which meant ‘necromancer.’ Wicca was never a religion, and Wiccans never existed. 

Who do Wiccans "worship"?
The god and goddess in Wicca are the horned god, an Irish deity, and the triple goddess, a Welsh deity. They are called the Lord and Lady, despite the fact these two deities never have any contact with one another in lore nor did any European peoples ever worship them as a pair. In fact, all European peoples worshipped the pan-European father sky and mother earth archetypes as the Lord and Lady, but this is completely disregarded in Wicca.

Witchcraft?
The practice of Wicca, usually called witchcraft, has absolutely nothing to deal with the any form of British pagan witchcraft. Galdor? Spæ? You will never see these fundamental aspects of British paganism mentioned among Wiccans. Wiccan witchcraft is based on a combination of English Christian cunning folk practices of the 15th through 19th centuries, and ceremonial magick, yes magick with a k, from Semitic countries.

The symbol
Let's talk about that star. The pentacle. Earth, air, fire, water and spirit. The pentacle is a symbol that can be found in places from all over, however, Europe just isn’t one of those places. Unless you count the butter churning stave found in one particular Galdrabók from 17th century Iceland. Not to mention that calling upon the 4 elements is only found in the Slavic countries of Europe, and never the British Isles.

Conclusion
In conclusion, Wicca is NOT a European religion. It is hardly a religion at all