The belief that humanity is different from other animals not by genetic
degree, but through distinct divine blessing, is an Abrahamic notion that
has caused immeasurable harm in the world.

This dogma has enabled on one hand the most cruel and unnecessary barbarism
toward non-human animals, being thought of as mindless automatons with no
more moral worth than pebbles or vegetation.

On the other hand, it encourages a false sense of kinship with races which
are incompatible with our own, with being human set as the absurdly low bar
which permits them access to citizenship, interbreeding, and even political
rule.

It should be seen as no coincidence that the offspring of Judaism,
Christianity and Islam, are universal religions which demand nothing more
than being human and accepting the beliefs; compelling the goyim to mix
with one another and shirk their native identities, while the original
Children of "God" retain a unique culture, one which can only be earned
through birthright and a standard of ancestral purity.

We should celebrate the accomplishments our race has made despite our
Christian infection, but to credit this plague for our competence is a
dismissal of our own inherent talents. How can that be expected to do
anything but hold us back?

The modern pagan needs to be more than what his ancestors were. In
classical pagan times, society was divided into castes, where the warriors
and priests, who had the closest connection to the divine, were in the
minority. This division continued into christian times as well, only it is
likely those two castes were replaced, by more loyal subjects to the
church, but I digress. My point is few, most of us come from simple
lineages of simple people, mere farmers, mere workers, mere cattle herders.

Now is a different time. Our ancestors had the guarantee of owning weapons
to defend themselves, being also defended by pagan warriors and being
guided through the ins and outs of their religion by pagan priests. We do
not have that in the present day. Christians speak of the temptation of the
devil, but to us the tempation of the devil is converting to an abrahamic
religion, where everything is laid out for us and we can just relax, up to
a certain point.

The modern day pagan needs to be an (amateur) historian. He needs to
understand the history of his own people, their origin, their struggles,
why and when they converted to an abrahamic religion, and their
relationship with it. 

The modern day pagan needs to be partly a folklorist, for even "mere"
folklore is an important part of who we are.

The modern day pagan needs to be a geneticist. Recent genetic data has
largely proven what is commonly known as the Aryan Invasion, what gave us
the languages we speak and a large part of our ethnic religions and
customs.

The modern day pagan needs to be a linguist. He needs to understand where
his language came from and how it was shaped into what it is today. In
comparative mythology, much is learned about many gods by doing nothing but
learning about the origins of their names.

The modern day pagan needs to be a theologian. His understanding of
religion must encompass not only his own, but also other branches of
paganism and the abrahamic religions who despise us so much.

The modern day pagan needs to be a warrior and a survivalist. Training in
an efficent martial art (boxing, MMA, wrestling) as well as in other
manners of warfare is a must. We need to be men, and the first step to
being one is knowing how to defend oneself. Cushy capitalism has lulled us
in a false sense of security, but all societies are four meals away from
complete anarchy. Even in so-called civilized society, there are people out
there who despise you due to your religion or ethnic origin, or who just
want to hurt you and those close to you for the cheap thrills. Furthermore,
we need to know how to survive as best we can in the wild. Knowledge of
plants, animals, hunting and so on are imperative.

The ideal for the modern pagan man is a mixture between a soldier and a
Renaissance polymath.